from tracemalloc import start


Explaination on the  analysis 

we start with import then  create a directory to save the figures. Then we read the data and do some preprocessing. After that we create a plot to show the distribution of resolved and unresolved domains by tld group. Finally we save the figure and show it.
    
Then We go to Data section
This is improtatn here we will load all the data   from differenct groups from the folder dns_dependency

We will also load the traco categorized name_parquet  file this contain the original list of tranco
their racnk and tld information

We chekc if the parquet are loaded correctly 

We also check if there are duplicate domains in the resolved data

We then map which domain where not resolved saveing them in  the names files

Then we have a graph that  represent the distribution of resolved and unresolved domains by tld group. We use a bar plot to show the count of resolved and unresolved domains for each tld group. We also add labels and title to the plot for better understanding. Finally we save the figure and show it.
    

We create a parquet called resolved_summary.parquet this contain the summary of the resolved and unresolved domains by tld group. This will be used for futher analysis in the next steps.
    

The above cells can be run only once, from there we can alwasy use and load the 
parquet the temp parcqet   to continue with the analysis without having to run the above cells again. This is important because the above cells are time consuming and we don't want to run them every time we want to do some analysis on the data.

(Put this hint on top and also in the data section)

TCB analy We first look on TCB of site from TLD that were present by the time perlis of transitive truest.

TLD which existed by 2004

How do we do this we do this by  first getting the  TLD Registratoin from iana root db  registratoin date for all ccTLD
 For gtld we  concider the  14 
 that as present by 20004 whcih are theoriginal seven .com, .edu, .gov, .int, .mil, .net, and .org) created in 1980s and the other seven created  in the first expansion of DNS which included(.aero, .biz, .coop, .info, .museum, .name, and .pro.)

We save this data in  names ccTLD_registration_date.parquet  this will be used for latar for reprudicbiliy you  dont need to run again  just load the data and get teh registration as of may 10 2026 from iana root db
 
 Then we look at TCB for domains from tld whcih are rpesent by 2004 we call them old tld


Maximum TCB: 43
mean of TCB  3.49
median of TCB 2.00
Percentage with TCB < 10: 97.53%
Percentage with TCB > 10: 1.80%

ALso looke  at cctld vs GTLD


Top 15 Large average TCB 
on ccTLD 
and gtld


We then look  on all data TLD registered before and after 2004

Computed The  TCB
Computed  the 


Maximum TCB: 43
mean of TCB  3.44
median of TCB 2.00
Percentage with TCB < 10: 97.62%
Percentage with TCB > 10: 1.71%


iana also group tld into different groups  based on their type and purpose. 

These are country code, generic, generic restricted , generic, infrastucture and sponserd.We also look at TCB  of these 

we also checked  the cdf for TCB vs gTLD,
 

 we also checkged top 15 cctld and gtld by average TCB

The average tcb size might be skewewd by the number of domain by that group.

We look into different   stuff 

Groups find the most size of the group  by plotting the tcb average angaisnt group size of TLD

and noting  the outlier on both group size  and average tcb size 

Smlaaler group sizehave larger average tcb zie   majority of the groups ave average between 2 and 6 and extending a little bit to 8 

To balance the weight of the group on the average tcb size we used the following.

Domain count threshold 
TLD groups size distribution
x = 5: >= 5: 75.35%
x = 10: >= 10: 63.03%
x = 50: >= 50: 34.79%
x = 100: >= 100: 26.06%
x = 1000: >= 1000: 9.16%

ar9und 60 3% of the groups have more that 10 domains so we used htis as threshold and find the 15  tlg with more average domains.
Keekping only the group with more than 10 domains we find the top 15 ccTLD and gtld by average TCB

We also look in another perspective of weighted average on TCB  by using the bayesina Shrinkage , pulling the  average  to true average .

For this we looked at all data .

and applied baeysina average and shringae average 

We then  find the  15   average tcb for average cctld and gtld




Taking into account  these df

df = resolved_summary_df.copy()

reslovde_with_TLD_threshold

tld_shrinkage_df

Tranco_with_oldTLD


True leading tld average that are in top 15  in all above df looking at cctld and nonCCTLD 

idea is to have prouped barhcat with specifica color per goroup like com is ping to be ping in all  groups this will be easuer to  to track 

Then I checked correlation betweent TCB vs ranking

First wit check TCB vs rank 

observed 

Compared the distribution of TCB for  top 1000 vs bottom 1000 ranked domains

We also look at top 10K 

And 100K 


And then we checked the group of 100k different bins bin size 10k

and the least 100k in bins of 10k


TCB and dependency on  Top Infrastructure Providers  this data uses data generated from the ptt-iyp-analysis tranco_infrasturcture _NS serviec provide. The note book must be run to generate to thep infrastructuee

We looked at  

and because of dependency can be partial we computed weiteg  average parcentage for each group and  find the dependency parcentage of the group on the top 5 and top 10 providers on different bins of top 100 and least 100k


General average on TCB for domain that depend on top infrasttucter vs those that do not depend on top infrastructure providers
 
 IP, Prefix, and ANs